Hi all,

I spent some time over winter break thinking about DAQ and manpower issues, and
found the NSF "Software Infrastructure for Sustained Innovation - SSE & SSI" grant
(http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2016/nsf16532/nsf16532.htm). I think it might be possible
for CDMS to apply to this grant, with the aim of getting funding for at least one
full-time postdoc for three years.

### Money ######### The success rate for proposals is about 20%, but the award
amounts are fairly lucrative. SSE grants run for three years, and typically
provide $500K in total. SSI grants run for five years, and typically provide $1M
in total. See the attached plots for award-amount distributions.

### However ######### These software grants generally support work that benefits
an entire field; it's rare that work restricted to a single collaboration recieves
funding. To get a sense of what projects are typically funded, see
https://sites.google.com/site/softwarecyberinfrastructure/software/software and
http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/simpleSearchResult?queryText=SI2&ActiveAwards=true.

I think we may be able to make a competitive proposal by collaborating with a
group working on more general-purpose DAQ code. MIDAS is perhaps an obvious
collaboration to consider. Another option to consider is the work being done by
some former collaborators of mine at FRIB
(https://www.phy.ornl.daq.gov/fribdaq).

### Worth it? ######### While there's money we can apply for, we'd need to (A)
hammer out a collaboration with a more-generally-applicable DAQ group or (B)
propose to expand the scope of our current work.

Work on specific software like MIDAS is most appropriate to the SSE grant,
which is due April 26. The SSI grant is due September 19 and is intended to
support more general work.  An example of a project that might be a good fit
for the SSI grant is the FRIB-based work on building interoperable DAQ tools. 

I dunno. What do you guys think? Worth the trouble?

Amy


Robert Varner, a past collaborator of mine, is currently working on DAQ support
for the nuclear-physics RIB facility at MSU. Many of the issues we're facing are
similar, and I think we'd benefit from collaborating with his group.

I've put up a summary of the particular issues his group is considering at:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tUVpu2Tk-WFe5JXFqDyuZ7ooq_KZvELk_jI0g9XmsRw/edit#

With collaboration, we'd be able to share expertise. For example, our group is
increasingly familiar with Midas; this is a fairly common DAQ, but isn't well
represented at MSU, where they most often use an in-house DAQ. Since Robert
Varner's team needs to support the general DAQ needs of visiting users,
collaborators that bring DAQ variety might be helpful. And with collaboration,
we'd potentially be able to use some of the tools Dr. Varner's group will
eventually build.

Another possibility opened up by collaboration is the NSF SI2 grant
(http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2016/nsf16532/nsf16532.htm), a software infrastructure
grant. CDMS work, alone, is too specific to be a good fit for this grant, but
partnering with a more general DAQ-standards effort might be a good basis for an
SSI proposal.  I should add some forewarning, though: Robert Varner and his crew
are (nearly) all from national labs, and so can't be PIs or co-PIs for this NSF
grant.

I dunno.  What do you guys think?

Amy
